Work in progress
---

1. On strategic logic of personal repressions in autocracies [Draft available upon request]

      >*Why and when do autocracies allow opposition leaders to have a say in politics? We introduce prominence as a characteristic that might affect strategic repressive decisions. We first analyse the data on political prisoners from Russia and demonstrate a gradually increasing trend in prominence of repressed opposition figures. We hypothesise that this result is driven by fear of backlash that targeted personal repressions of prominent individuals might provoke. This fear under some conditions might prevent a politician from immediately repressing opposition leaders and shapes his strategy of gradually tightening repressions over time. The main constraint a leader faces is keeping the populace ignorant of repressiveness of the regime. We formalise this argument with formal modelling, discuss implications of the model and its fit to the context of Russia and other countries (Belarus, Hungary).*

   
2. How voters respond to top-down symbolic politics: the renaming of streets in Poland  *with V. Charnysh* [Draft available upon request]

      >*Parties in power frequently seek to impose the official historical narrative on public spaces. We focus on the 2016 decommunization law in Poland to understand the political effects of top-down de-commemoration efforts. The law stipulated that street names deemed communist be renamed within twelve months, or else receive an alternative name from the government-appointed voivodes. We compiled an original geocoded dataset of all street name changes recorded in 2016-2018, linking them to electoral results in polling stations and municipalities. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we show that in the 2019 parliamentary election the ruling Law and Justice party (PiS), which championed the law, lost votes in the affected municipalities while the opposition parties secured significant gains. The renaming of streets also increased the number of spoiled ballots, reflecting political protest, and diminished turnout. The effects of decommunization policy decline with distance to the renamed streets and are strongest within a 4-km radius. To square this result with the ruling party’s 2019 electoral victory and a 11% increase in turnout at the country level, we examine heterogeneous effects of decommunization by the pre-treatment levels of PiS support. We find that in PiS strongholds, decommunization had a negligible effect on PiS voteshare and a positive effect on turnout. In places with low PiS support before the implementation of the law, turnout declined, protest vote increased, and PiS voteshare dropped. Thus, decommunization appears to have mobilized voters in PiS strongholds and demobilized voters in places that vote for other parties.*


3. Cultural capital and the (intergenerational) persistence of higher education *with R. Aulagnon* [Draft available upon request]
